Most accidents aren't new people that
have no clue what they're doing. They're
experienced people that got so
complacent they forgot something
critical. I'm a rock climber as well,
and there's sort of a saying when you're
into the rope safety nerd stuff like I
am, complacency kills.
[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Josh McIntyre,
the founder of Chain Tootses, an
education resource for blockchain
security, and a chairperson at the CCE
at C4, which is a consortium of
educators and security experts that are
seeking to establish a set of standards
for cryptocurrency and blockchain. In
this conversation, we discuss Josh's
Genesis into open-source software, his
book that he recently released about
security practices, how to create an
individual's security framework, the
three key security elements in the
blockchain space, 2025's
predominant security threats, and so
much more. Just a reminder, nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens and that the guest or
host might hold tokens discussed in any
given episode. You can check out a
disclaimer on www.newtoday.com.
Also, if you enjoyed this episode,
please consider rating and reviewing it
on your favorite podcasting platform and
sharing with your friends and family.
Every rating, review, like, and comment
really does help us reach more people
and bring you more of your favorite
guests. With all that said, I really
enjoyed chatting with Josh and I hope
you enjoy the conversation, too. Hey,
everyone, welcome to the Smart Economy
podcast. Today, we're joined by Josh
McIntyre. Among many hats he wears, uh,
one of the predominant is chairperson at
the CCE committee at C4, which is a
consortium of educators and security
experts that are looking to help
establish a set of standards for
cryptocurrency and blockchain. And
before we get into the hellos, Josh,
you're also joined by some fellow C4
alum on the pod, including Jessica,
Michael, Josh, and Kent. So, we're
thrilled to have yet another person from
the C4 umbrella onto the podcast.
>> Yeah, thank you so much for having me.
I'm really privileged to get to work
with all those folks. So, it's uh it's
exciting to be part of the fold.
>> Yeah, totally cool. I got to hang out
with Josh and Michael and Jessica at um
Consensus Toronto um last month and it
was really cool to see everybody in
person. Before we kind of like delve
into everything, I just kind of want to
hear why you're here. what what's your
genesis story with with Bitcoin or or is
it with Ethereum? Is it with
decentralized open source software?
What's kind of like your intro into the
space?
>> Yeah, I think decentralized open-source
software is is really the genesis for
me. I was in college um in the early
days of Bitcoin around 2013 2014. And as
a computer science student in general,
I'm very interested in sort of open
technologies,
open software, open knowledge sharing.
So having a decentralized protocol for
money coming out and coming on the scene
was very interesting to me. Sort of
bringing together open-source,
cryptography,
software engineering and all these
interesting ways. Um, so I dived into
it, was encouraged to learn by some
professors, and then started um a couple
years later putting out my own
educational content and really trying to
build out that sense of community.
>> That's interesting that you said your
your professors kind of encouraged you
to delve into this probably because you
were looking at it from more of a
technology perspective and not
necessarily a money perspective, but
that was 12 years ago now. And what were
your professors thinking at the time?
Were they just kind of egging you on
because yeah, let's let the college
student explore cutting edge whatever or
did they also kind of see the value prop
of decentralized monies?
>> Yeah. Um the Dr. Anthony Sapelia at SVC
um in Pennsylvania. So he was exploring
how open blockchains could help with
computer science education, right? and
looking at it from the same perspective
as me. All these interesting ways that
those technologies interact. So I
actually got to help him do a little bit
of research for a paper that he wrote on
that topic and he and I have had a lot
of very fun conversations over the years
about how the technologies evolved.
>> Awesome. So like your aha moment was
basically the second you started looking
at Bitcoin's code.
>> Yeah, kind of. I don't even know if I'd
looked specifically at the code, but
just starting to learn like, wow, how
hash functions and elliptic curves and
all of these different components along
with sort of the the economic side
interacted to create a way to exchange
value without having to have anybody in
the middle. To me, in general, right, I
used lots of proprietary software. I use
lots of open- source software. Uh the
thing to me about technology that's
really cool is we can have these choices
and we don't necessarily have to have a
ton of infrastructure to for anybody to
be able to write code and create an
alternative to something that's been
sold by a billion dollar company.
Computer science is very upstart in that
way. the name of the financial inst uh
Franklin Templeton is is putting
portions of their ETF proceeds into
supporting Bitcoin developers and we're
starting to see these kind of like
traditional financial entities support
OSS using other examples maybe like
Linux or some other architecture that
I'm unfamiliar with. How does open-
source software kind of stand the test
of time and be able to survive or live
alongside these proprietary softwares or
maybe even perform or function in better
ways?
>> The thing that I sort of love about
open-source is, you know, the motives
are a little bit different than
proprietary software, right? There is
tons of amazing
proprietary software out there that that
does a great job, but at the end of the
day, you know, that software is
developed and maintained for the purpose
of making money for a company, whereas a
lot of the open-source software world is
very communityoriented,
right? I love to see open source
developers get paid for their work and
be able to make a living with it. But I
mean, half of the internet is propped up
basically by passion projects written
by, you know, one guy and maintained.
And they're not two separate worlds,
right? Big companies use open- source
software to help build their software
and many times will give back. What
makes it so different to me is sort of
the community building effort and
people's desire to just share knowledge,
share software for the purpose of
creating something interesting and
trying to solve a problem for people.
>> Yeah. Do you think adding like this
economic layer into code uh into like
the the tech stack like we have with
Ethereum, Bitcoin, all these other
cryptocurrencies?
Do you think that adding this like
economic element revolutionized open
source software and perhaps has created
a path to provide like a sustainable way
for OSS developers to build a life that
they can do this full-time and enjoy
building what they want to build.
>> I mean absolutely I think it helps. What
can be very interesting about crypto
software in particular is there's sort
of a more builtin path to creating
something opensource but also being able
to make a living or make some amount of
an income off of it. That's really
beneficial for open- source developers.
There sometimes can be a downside with
that too from the security perspective
and the social engineering perspective
because bad actors are also incentivized
to create software that could
potentially be a scam, do something
malicious and they can make money off of
that too. So there's there's sort of a
delicate balance there I think that
we've seen evolve in the ecosystem. But
largely on the positive side, this is
empowering people to better their lives,
better software development, and also be
able to make a living off of it. I want
to delve into a lot of what you just
brought up in a moment, but um I'm from
an era in the crypto and blockchain
scene where if anything mentioned with
Microsoft or Google or any of these big
names was associated with a blockchain
project, it would send the value of the
token skyhigh. So, I don't know, maybe
it's just from a bygone era that when I
see someone working at like a large
enterprise, I kind of I don't know, like
I get a little tickle in my brain. So
you do a lot of the open source software
and uh content creation and security
stuff kind of like as volunteer or as a
side hustle. Your main day gig, your
nineto-ive is working at Microsoft. So
maybe just like really quickly you could
just share what your role is there and
then I would love to get kind of like a
temperature reading for how your peers
view the space in which we we're talking
about today.
>> Definitely. Yeah. So my day job is other
than you know lots of computer science
learning is totally unrelated to crypto.
I'm a software engineer at Microsoft uh
here in Pittsburgh. I work on a file
system product for Azure cloud. And it's
really cool because one of the great
things about computer science is even if
you're working on something completely
unrelated to what you're really
interested in, you're totally learning
skills that apply elsewhere. Um, I've
touched a very broad swath of CS in my
10, 12, 15 year career and it all ties
together. Terms of temperature reading,
it's it's honestly a mixed bag. Uh,
because crypto does get kind of a bad
rap because of the scams, uh, because of
the pump and dumps, because of some of
the negative sides that have evolved
from the technology. And there are a lot
of people in the CS field that feel like
it's not the best use of technology.
It's it could be kind of a waste of
energy or, you know, problematic for
those reasons. But there's equally as
many people that find it really
fascinating. They love that intersection
of open-source,
finance, software development,
cryptography, security just because it's
so fascinating and it really can help
empower people to have a choice in how
they interact with their money.
>> Yeah. Do you have any peers at like the
water cooler that you you talk with
about either building on decentralized
solutions or even just cryptocurrency in
general or is it kind of a thing that
people don't really bring up at the
office? It totally depends. I I honestly
have a lot of support in my peer group.
Um I feel like people like my
enthusiasm, which I think is really fun.
I put out a book this year about
security that's also open source and um
folks have been asking a lot about how
that's going and and supporting that.
I've definitely had some water cooler
conversations about sort of the
applications of blockchains even for
things like voting.
Just depends on the day. We all have our
own sets of interests and helping people
with tech.
>> Uh something that I've been curious
about for a long time when you look at
like these decentralized storage
projects like Stoj or IPFS or insert the
name here, they're always kind of
bragging about the the merits of
decentralized file storage networks.
Since you're working at Azure or on a on
a product within the Azure umbrella,
where are we at in terms of like the
growth of distributed file storage
networks into being competitive with a
more centralized entity or maybe even
something that is like under the
umbrella of Microsoft that has a lot of
different clients using Azure. Are we
getting closer? Whenever I see like the
the good merits of these distributed
file storage networks, is it really just
them kind of trying to sell themselves?
>> I haven't looked at them a ton, but in
general, what I would say is this. This
is such a copout tech person answer,
right? But there's pros and cons to
both. I think realistically something
like a decentralized file system like an
IPFS is trying to solve a bit of a
different problem than an Azure blob is,
right? These distributed mechanisms are
more so designed for their openness and
for their censorship resistance. So for
sharing for example information for
dissident or security or privacy reasons
where by nature that kind of system is
going to be fairly inefficient and maybe
a little slow for something like
enterprise use, right? you know, if
you're trying to store a large amount of
data for for enterprise and dealing with
all of the security and privacy
concerns, sharing those files openly on
the blockchain probably isn't the
solution for you. But if you're trying
to share critical security information
um in a in a socially difficult time, um
an Azure blob account that could maybe
be shut down probably isn't the solution
either.
>> So, yes and no.
>> Yeah. Yes, no. Yeah. Awesome. So, you
mentioned a moment ago that you released
a book this year on security. Is this
kind of under the the chain tootses
umbrella maybe like let's just also jump
into what Chain Tots is. What is it?
How'd you get started? How long have you
been educating people under the name
Chain Tootses? Yeah. So, I've been
writing for slightly longer than this,
but Chain Tootses is about 6 and a half
years old, and um I like to lovingly
call it my giant ADHD brain dump of
interesting computer science uh and
security information. Basically, it's
just my side project um where I create
open YouTube videos, articles, code
demos, and now the book uh to help
educate people on these topics. So,
there's not necessarily like a lesson
plan or a set plan for the project. It's
just kind of me having the opportunity
to dive into interesting technology
topics that I have some expertise on and
share them with people hopefully in a
digestible way. I'm very passionate
about it. It's a great way to stay
engaged when work is being work because
you know it's the the 9 to5 is not
always fun and everything is open source
open license so it's freely available
for people and um they can reuse it
share it as much as they want.
>> So did the work that you're doing in
chain tootses kind of help get you
connected with the C4 folks? What how
did that like relationship get
established? It did. Many years ago, the
before co times, C4 had a conference in
Denver that was had an open call for
proposals for people to come in and
educate and chain tootses was less than
a year old at the time and I reached out
to them, applied to give a talk. It was
just an amazing time and that really
fostered a connection with Jess and all
of the folks uh that are still involved
with C4. and Jess reached out to me
about starting the CCE committee about 2
or 3 years ago now. And of course, I was
honored to be involved. So, I I I just
really like the C4 crew because they
have a very similar ethos to me. We're
just trying to educate people, have fun
with it, make information accessible.
So, it's, you know, volunteer basis and
it ties in really well with the kind of
work that I'm doing on my own. And so
can you just kind of give a brief Eli
five of what the CCE committee is and
does?
>> Yeah. So you know briefly the C4
organization has some professional
certifications and sort of knowledge
paths for uh the certified Bitcoin
professional, certified Ethereum
professional and the CCSA cryptocurrency
standard auditor and the CCSS standard
which is all about different levels of
security knowledge about the technology
um from a professional context and the
C4 crew found a need to do something
that was a little bit more entry level,
sort of a before you get to the CBP and
the C. And uh that's the purpose of CCE
is to give folks that are just starting
out that want a broad swath of security
knowledge and technology knowledge that
might not be specific to Bitcoin or
Ethereum. Do you do any of the I
remember when we had Jess on, she was
going through I think the the first or
second revision of the Ethereum
certification and was talking about how
difficult it is because Ethereum is
constantly changing. So, do you have
kind of a a lending hand or supporting
role in helping to peerre these
certification tests before they're sent
out into the wild for professionals to
to complete? I have not been
specifically involved with the uh
certifications because they sort of have
their own committees. Um but what I have
been involved with has been a lot of
live streams similar to what we're doing
now and articles and educational
materials that we're building out for
CCE. Uh we don't really have a
curriculum or a course yet for CCE. It's
more of a broad introduction to some of
these topics.
>> Do you ever go out on behalf of CCE and
evangelize? Like are you ever at
Consensus or Denver or local blockchain
meetups kind of going out there and
trying to like capture people to come
take the CCE exam?
>> I'm usually not the person doing that.
Jess does such a phenomenal job of that
and some of the other folks that that
travel and go to the conferences. Um I
do quite a bit of meetups and talks
through Chain Tootes. I just gave a talk
about um Python and security and
blockchain at um a local place called
Hackers Guild here in Pittsburgh. So uh
very very similar approach.
>> Yeah. Okay. So I I'm kind of curious
then who are you trying to educate? Are
you are you trying to educate like
software developers because the the talk
you just gave is very oriented towards
towards developers and engineers. Are
you also trying to educate like my dad
who might be interested or or are you
focusing more on someone who's probably
already taken the first step into buying
their first crypto or are building on
their first blockchain? Like are you
trying to capture everybody or you are
you trying to capture people who are
already here and are looking for help?
So for the CCE committee, we're largely
looking at a more entry-level audience
or an audience that is blockchain
familiar. Maybe they have a wallet but
don't know how to start diving deeper
into security and key management and
those topics. With Chain Tootes, I
actually have a pretty broad spectrum.
So many of my videos are oriented
towards entry-level users and keeping
them safe, educating them about scams
and common pitfalls. But I also do quite
a bit of videos that are much more
technical, diving into code and
cryptography demos, malware attacks. I
like to touch a little bit of everything
because I think it's all so interesting
and I think there is an audience for all
of those different topics. Perhaps my
channel could stand to be a little more
focused, but it probably wouldn't be as
fun then.
>> Yeah, I think that it being fun for you
kind of leads into to this next question
I have. But um I myself have felt over
the years kind of moments of burnout or
moments of just being over it. And we've
also seen in the last couple years,
frankly, like a lot of quiet quitting
from OGs who have been working in the
space for a while. So like what keeps
you going? What keeps you motivated? I
think that's a really interesting topic
because I've talked a lot about this
with friends who are in and out of the
space.
You know, I mean to be honest, I've
experienced it in the sense that there
are many downsides to crypto and how the
industry has evolved, right? I think
personally it's an amazing technology.
It's empowering, but there is a lot of
scams. There's a lot of dangers. There's
a lot of negative things that happen in
the space that, you know, sometimes I
say, "I'm so excited to be in crypto.
I'm so proud of the work that I do." And
sometimes I say, "I'm in crypto. That's
so embarrassing, right?" You know, I
think I think we've all been there. To
me, the thing that keeps me involved, I
think, is just being honest about the
reason that I'm in it in the first
place. I'm really interested in the
technology. I still think it's
incredibly fascinating. I still think
using it in the right way can be really,
really helpful for individuals and
communities. And you know, since I've
tried to avoid the negative side as much
as possible and just stay true to what
interests me,
I don't really have to worry about any
of that noise because I'm just being
myself.
>> The thing that kind of drags me down
after working full-time in the space
since 2018 is I I got interested in into
the blockchain crypto space in 2017
during the ICO era. And we were promised
so much back then. And we were told that
there would be so many decentralized
applications. The world would be coming
on chain. And here we are 7 years later.
There's no decentralized Uber. You know,
coming on chain is like Black Rockck
buying Bitcoin and hosting its own money
market funds. So it it kind of sometimes
feels like we were a little bit lied to
or maybe we were just buying into the
visions of Sugar Plums and Fairies. But
that's kind of like what has been my
biggest struggle, I would say, with with
continuing to be here day in and day
out.
>> I totally feel you. Yeah. I mean,
obviously I love it and I'm still here
after 10 years, but it's an interesting
space to be in, right?
>> I guess another thing then specific to
to the work that you do is you're you're
constantly onboarding newbies, I would I
would say. So, do you ever feel like
you're just constantly spinning your
wheels educating new entrance? Like,
does it ever feel like Groundhog Day for
you?
>> Believe it or not, not really. Even
though a lot of the topics are the same,
every person that gets to learn
something new is fun for me, right? I'm
just one of those people that's
generally pretty bubbly and I really
like to teach people new things that I'm
interested in. Like, my wife never hears
the end of it, right? when I have a have
an interest and you know it's kind of
like I'm a Brazilian jiu-jitsu guy,
right? Every new person that comes in
the gym like warms me up to to go
through their first day with them and
help them out. Um even though it's like
I'm showing somebody the same thing for
the hundth time. And it feels like the
same in crypto, right? Because even
though I might be saying, "Here's why
you should never store your seed phrase
unencrypted somewhere for the thousandth
time, it's that person's first exposure
to something that could save them from a
big problem." And that sort of community
building interaction to me is always
going to be engaging because you're
connecting with somebody
on a level that's helpful to them, even
if it's not new to you. I'm very well
aware that this is an open-ended
question, but from your perspective,
like what is security? Is it just
maintaining seed phrases? Is it general
OPSAC? Does it go as far as ensuring you
use like an onion router and tour
network when you're surfing the
internet? Like how encompassing is
security for you when when you're
talking with both OGs and newbies?
>> Yeah, this is another I think great
question to ask. One of the thing that's
things that's interesting about crypto
is many of us do get into it from maybe
the side of a little deeper interest in
privacy or security than the average
person. So, not to use this in a
degrading way, right? But there tends to
be a lot of paranoia in the crypto
space, which I mean it's kind of cool
and interesting to think about. But what
security really means to me is
evaluating your personal threat model.
what realistically is going to be a
threat to you for your needs, your
experience, and your lifestyle and how
to build a security plan around that.
I often say when I'm doing this kind of
work, right, we can talk anytime about
the most secure way to do something, to
store your seed phrase, to manage your
whole self-custody ecosystem in your
online life. But the most indepth
solution is not always actually right
for every person.
A solution that's so complicated that
you're going to lose your keys or you're
never going to be able to remember it or
you're going to get tired of it every
time you need to send a transaction
isn't actually necessarily the most
secure solution because you're going to
find the gaps and make a mistake or get
tired of it and throw it out entirely.
So I want people to think about security
for what it practically means for them.
>> So when we look at security like through
the lens of Pareto principle, where can
somebody put 20% of their efforts and
yield 80% of the results? What are the
kind of like most common ways in which
we can improve, enhance, and ensure our
security? What practices can we do that
can minimize us from the majority of
attacks or being susceptible to uh
malicious actors?
>> Yeah, it's a broad question. I would say
on a on a high level divide it into
three things when we talk about crypto.
The first that applies to any type of
wallet you use is social engineering
awareness.
The biggest threats to crypto users in
my experience are social engineering
attacks. It's scammers trying to
directly trick you out of keys or to
send them an irreversible crypto
transaction for some reason or install
malicious software. All with the end
result through different avenues to get
money from you in a way that you can't
claw back the way that you can with that
uh bank transaction, right? Or a credit
card fraud.
So, that's a big one, right? You have to
be aware and educated about social
engineering tactics and even not just
specific scams themselves. Um, you want
to think about how these kind of things
evolve.
From a self-custody perspective, to me
at a high level, that means
understanding what your keys are and how
to safely store them so that they are
accessible to you, backed up, and not
accessible to attackers.
That's a very deep topic to get into
that we could touch on some more, but
that's kind of the high level. And then
when it comes to custody solutions like
exchanges, it's really about honing your
traditional account management hygiene.
So your passwords, your two factor, your
backup and recovery options, and
hopefully now diving more into the
passwordless future and getting away
from some of those traditional
vulnerabilities. This even includes
includes things that people miss like
making sure your email account is as
secure as your exchange account so that
somebody that knows your email can't get
into that and do password resets and
things like that. So that's kind of my
high level is how we think about those
threats depending on how you're
custodying your keys and then being
aware of social engineering that's going
to target you no matter how you store
your money. I'm pretty sure I've talked
about this on the podcast before, but
I've actually been a victim of a social
engineering attack where somebody
convinced me they were my friend. Um,
and it was incredible how well they did.
And I was years into the space by this
time, someone who should have known
better, but I didn't even think to
myself that this might not be the person
who they're impersonating. And they
ended up getting some Bitcoin out of me.
So the heruristic that I kind of
developed after going through my
post-mortem of my own attack was
urgency. This individual was saying,
"You need to send me Bitcoin right now
because I'm doing X, Y, and Z, and this
is why I need it right now." And now
whenever anybody is trying to get me to
do something urgent, and it's gotten to
the point where you mentioned earlier
where a lot of us are paranoid, but I
always think of the the Kurt Cobain
lyric, just because you're paranoid
doesn't mean they're not out to get you.
Um even if like my mom is like, "You
need to do this now. If it's on a text
message, I'll go and verify that it's
her number that's messaging me." So,
what are some other heruristics that
listeners can apply to social
engineering attacks beyond just urgency?
If somebody's telling you out of the
blue that you need to do something now,
maybe take a step back from the computer
and and realize what's going on. What
are some other ways that we can realize
we're being socially engineered for some
sort of attack?
>> Well, first I want to say I'm I'm very
sorry you went through that. That's
that's tough. And I think the fact that
you went through and did a postmortem of
that is exactly the right thing to do.
And I love that you identified urgency.
Um, this is not like an official
industry thing, but when I've been
thinking about social engineering
tactics to educate people through my
content, right, I sort of think of three
things. And the first one is in fact
urgency. Generally, if somebody whether
you think you know them or you don't
know them that's trying to get you to do
something fast should be a red flag or a
heristic to be aware of. The other two
that I commonly identify when I'm
looking at scams is threats. So, they're
threatening you with some negative
action. I sort of strangely enough um
one of my emails was involved in a in a
crypto-related data breach and I get
lots of fishing emails and I sort of
collect them and look at what their
tactics are uh for my audience and one
of the very common themes is threats,
right? you get the fishing email that
says you must enter your seed phrase to
update and verify your wallet or our KYC
policies are going to shut down your
your MetaMask account in 24 hours. Now,
if you know the technology well, you
know that's an empty threat, but not
everyone does. And so that threat of a
negative action gets people to give up
their seed phrase along with kind of
urgency tied in there. And then the
other heristic I often see is rewards.
We love free money. We love easy money.
Who doesn't? All of these too good to be
true giveaways, investment scams, some
of which are very sophisticated, uh like
the the sort of pig butchering scams. I
hate that name, but you know,
befriending you, romancing you,
ultimately getting you to invest in a
fake platform that says you're going to
make 50% a day. So the urgency, the
threats, and the rewards get a lot of
people. And they don't have to get
everybody. They can send out these mass
emails, send out these mass spam
messages on social platforms, and get
enough victims that make that a viable
way for them to make living, which is
very unfortunate. Like one of the ways
in which I've seen this kind of like
mass deployment tactic at its finest is
if you go onto any crypto YouTube video,
the there will be a malicious actor
saying, "Here's my seed phrase. I'm
locked out. Can you can you help me get
there?" And what people will do is
they'll input the seed phrase and
they'll send gas to it or they'll send
tokens to it and the wallet has a script
that just sends those gas fees to the
malicious actor. And so these are like
dollars at a time that they're getting,
but I mean it's it's it's a massive net
and they're probably catching a lot of
people. Do you have any like insights
into that?
>> We're very like-minded because actually
my latest YouTube video that I put out
is on this exact topic because I'm
getting flooded with them now in my
comments. I basically since probably the
first year of having my YouTube channel
have held and moderated my comments. Uh
because there's just so many automatic
bot scam comments, especially because
I've done videos in the past on topics
like recovery scams. There are already
people that are looking for help with
recovery, which most often isn't
possible. And then you have these spam
comments coming in like, "Oh, contact
this fake hacker on Instagram." And, you
know, now I'm getting flooded with the
the seed phrase gas fee scams because,
you know, there's always going to be
somebody like I hate to use this
negative term, but there's always going
to be somebody greedy enough to be like,
"Sweet. I can get $2,000 of free USDC by
cleaning out this poor person that
doesn't know not to share a seed
phrase." And it's actually like scammers
scamming scammers. It's
>> It's like some sort of perverse
malicious Robin Hood. Cool. All right.
So, I really appreciate the kind of
breakdown into social engineering
awareness, urgency, threats, and
rewards. What are some of like the best
tactics that somebody can deploy for
self-custody? It's very obvious to you
and me. We've been in the space for a
long time, like you protect your seed
phrase at all costs, but like what does
that mean? I had a moment uh about five
years back where I was speaking with
someone from Russia and I was basically
just talking about how it's scary to
store your seed phrase on a piece of
paper in your house cuz your house might
burn down. And he was like, "Why would
your house burn down? Is it not made out
of concrete?" And so American homes are
mostly made out of wood and so like a
seed phrase stored on a piece of paper
is is a large concern. So maybe put it
onto like a metal plate that is weather
resistant or fire resistant. Anyways,
what are some other kind of like top
level key self-custody preservation
practices that you might be able to
share with us that uh both an OG or
somebody new might be able to benefit
from?
>> Yeah. Well, you already touched on the
first one, which is backups. Backups are
critically important because, you know,
as we know, but maybe somebody that's
brand new to the space doesn't know,
losing your seed phrase is not like
losing your password to your Facebook
account. Your seed phrase encodes all of
the key data necessary to restore your
wallet in the event that the original is
lost. So, maybe you have the mobile
phone wallet and you drop it in the
bathtub. Who isn't guilty of some
accident like that happening? Um, my dad
put a cell phone through a snowblower at
work once. You know, like stuff happens,
right? You need to have a backup. And
when you talk about backups, you want to
think about durability. So, is a paper
seed phrase at least stored in, say,
like a fireresistant safe in your home
or a firebox. Do you have an offsite
copy?
Ironically enough, you know, a bank
safety deposit box could be your friend
in this case. Um, unless you're really
paranoid about like a sea a seizure
situation.
um
making sure that your backups are
tested, accessible, durable against the
elements, accidents and also um
unfortunately as human beings uh the
event of our passing making sure that
your assets are transferable to any
heirs uh or family or friends that you
have in your life.
>> I also have another kind of like shame
story of my years where I've screwed
things up. my very first ledger, I wrote
down my seed phrase incorrectly. And
luckily, I didn't like lose access to
that. But when I got another ledger
again and I input my seed phrase, which
at the time was holding all my digital
assets, I had not stored it right. So, I
would have lost everything I'd
accumulated over the first few years. A
more naive, younger, somebody who was
focusing less on the details kind of
like set me up for a bad situation. So
that's like another lesson learned uh a
negative lesson learned that I was
luckily able to avoid is make sure you
write your seed phrases down correctly.
So how do you kind of ingrain that into
people? What's the best way that we can
make sure we wrote our seed phrase down
properly um for the long term?
>> Yeah. Uh the first thing of course to
consider is word order is important. So,
make sure that when you write down your
words, you are noting somehow uh what
the order is. It can conceivably be
difficult or impossible to try to brute
force reordering words if you have them
out of order. There are some safeguards
built into the BIP 39 standard, which I
think is extremely interesting. You
actually only need the first four
characters of a seedword to uniquely
identify the word out of the dictionary.
So there is some safeguard in the event
of mild damage to the seed. Maybe a a
little bit of water gets onto one word.
You could conceivably figure out the
word. I'm hoping to maybe dive more
into, you know, missing seed words and
some of the things that you can do in
certain scenarios. But I mean,
generally, you should try to protect
completely against any key loss, any
loss of the data involved in that seat
phrase. Um because the more data that's
missing uh the more rapidly it becomes
impossible to reconstruct the data. Um
so paper that you laminate make sure
it's stored in a fire and flood
resistant place. Metal is better.
There's tons of solutions on the market
now uh commercial products for engraving
or storing a seed phrase in a very
durable medium. And then just making
sure that you think about all the places
you have it backed up um and having
those multiple copies so if one does get
damaged, you're not losing your only
copy of the data. That sort of goes for
any digital data that's important to
you. Generally, at least three copies,
two different mediums, one offsite. For
anyone listening to this, uh Jameson Lop
has a fantastic
um overview of all basically all the
metal wallet protectors out there on the
market. And he's actually gone through
trying to destroy them all himself uh by
freezing them, by torching them, uh by
dropping acid on them. So, if you're
curious for a metal wallet or a metal
seed phrase protector, just Google
Jameson LOP metal seed phrase protector
and you'll see an overview for pretty
much everyone that's every solution
that's out there on the market. I can't
um show that enough. I found my solution
by digging through his uh research. Um,
and then lastly, you know, I think a lot
of people like to be kind of c
self-custodial maxis, not your keys, not
your coins, but the reality is that a
large portion of the world uses
custodial solutions like exchanges. And
you mentioned that just making sure that
your access to these exchanges is
intact. What are kind of like the top
trips tricks and tips for making sure
that I have securely made it so that my
email address can't get easily um hacked
into and maybe a top trick for uh
ensuring I can always access my
custodial exchanges.
>> Yeah. So, I have a couple tips there and
real quick I just wanted to briefly
touch on too. Um yeah, I think Jameson
has a lot of great resources. He's even
levels above where I'm at knowledgewise
in security. Um, and I'm not bad at it.
You know, he's uh he's been through a
lot. And one thing I wanted to touch on
briefly too when we talk about security
mindset, um, self-custody, custodial
threat model relates to someone like
Jameson, which is it is also very
important to think about what your
realistic threat model is.
There have been instances of actual
physical attacks against high-profile
people in the crypto space. Jameson is
one of those individuals that has had
credible threats against his safety by
people hoping to access his his Bitcoin
uh because of his profile. You should be
aware of those things, but I also think
realistically most of us, even most of
us that have visibly been in the space
for a long time aren't that likely to
face, right? I could be wrong, but like
anybody that tried to rob me of crypto
would be super disappointed and
basically waste their life for no
reason, right? Most people that's not a
threat. Whereas like somebody like
Andreas, somebody like Jameson, um
people that have been in the space for a
long time and are sort of known to have
a high digital asset net worth, their
planning is very different than planning
for the average person like myself or
you or somebody that's just getting into
it and you know doesn't go on Twitter
and say like I made a million dollars in
Bitcoin this week. Please don't do that.
So, you know, when we think about
custody solutions, it really is this
kind of traditional account hygiene.
Switch to passwordless if you haven't
already. Any good exchange is going to
allow you to use a pass key now instead
of a password and traditional 2FA.
If you're not doing that, make sure you
have a long, strong, and unique
passphrase for each service that you
use. Um, password managers are your
friend. There's some security details to
think about with those too, but in
general, the risk of storing credentials
in a password manager protected by a
very strong passphrase are less than
reusing the same bad password
everywhere. Use your strong 2FA,
especially in crypto. So, always use the
the authenticator app-based or a
hardware security key over text message
or email 2FA. I know we're getting into
a kind of a long answer here, but SIM
swap attacks are very prevalent in this
space. This is attackers impersonating
you at the phone company's support desk
and getting access to your phone number
and they can use that to get the codes
and take over your account. So, always
avoid that if you can because that's a
pretty easy avenue for a good attacker
uh to take over your account without
having to know your password. You know,
all of these are pretty traditional
account management things, but um a lot
of details to think about.
>> For a lot of folks who maybe have their
own hardware wallet, maybe like a
physical key like a UB key is something
that they might become interested in.
What are your kind of uh tricks, top
tips for that? I personally love the
idea of a hardware device, but I'm
always scared to put a 100% of all my
security onto there because what happens
if I lose it or what have you? What's
like the best sort of hygiene you can
have with like a physical pass key
device? So, the easy answer for
something like that is pretty much any
good service that allows you to use a
hardware key will allow you to associate
multiple keys with that service um as a
backup. So, um if you're going to use a
UB key, which I highly recommend, I
think they're fantastic and and I use
them as well. You should have multiple
UB keys and register them all to the
service at the same time and then kind
of spread them out the way you would
spread out your other backups. So if
you're going to have a UB key that's on
you all the time in a backpack or in
your laptop that you might lose, make
sure your backup UB key is stored
somewhere like your safe, a known
location in your house and and ready to
go should you need to use it as the
backup. And then of course if you are in
a data loss scenario where you lose a
key or a seed as soon as you recover
make another backup right get that other
cubic key shipped to you make that the
backup now and put it in the same place.
Always have a fail safe for these types
of things. Uh especially in the crypto
world if you're self custodying um
because there's no one there to help you
if you make a mistake. I think the
basically like the past 20 minutes we
just went through are some great kind of
like intro levels into how a newbie
could kind of like hit the ground
running and and really if they hone in
on to what we just spoke about really
position themselves to be pretty secure
in this space. Obviously like ongoing
education is a must because everything
is always changing in blockchain and
crypto at a more rapid rate than a lot
of other things. So I think for like the
new person there's a lot that they can
just glean from everything we just
talked about. I think a lot of us after
we kind of figure this out for ourselves
we can go years if not decades without
re-educating ourselves or continuing our
education. So what about for like the
experienced the OG crypto blockchain
user? Where are they kind of like blind
and their assumptions? where are they
maybe not staying so sharp and they're
setting themselves up for a breach in
their security standards. Are there any
kind of like rhyming sort of events that
you've seen in your conversations with
people where OG's kind of like lost a
step and maybe the most of us should
double check this to make sure we're
we're still in tune. Like what can we do
as an OG to kind of like make sure we're
still in our game? That is a big risk
for being actually a sophisticated
person in the space. I'm I'm a rock
climber as well, like recreationally.
And you know, there's sort of a saying
uh when you're into the rope safety nerd
stuff uh like I am. Complacency kills,
right? Most accidents aren't new people
that have no clue what they're doing.
They're experienced people that got so
complacent they forgot something
critical. So when I think of two
high-level things to think about is
number one is don't get complacent in
your education and your continuing um
practicing of these skills. So you've
done your initial threat model 2 years
ago. You bought the hardware wallet. You
educated yourself on scams in 2023. What
the most common tactics are. Security is
not necessarily a set it and forget it
type of enterprise, right? If it's been
2 years since your last honest
assessment of how much do I have stored,
is it appropriately protected for that
value? How are my backups?
Just think about it again.
Schedule I mean, even put it on your
calendar, right? Schedule 30 minutes out
of the year uh around a vacation time to
re-evaluate where you're at. Have you
kept up with the latest tactics? Have
you
made sure that that your backups are
available and those sorts of things? Uh,
which leads me into kind of the second
point, which is um we often say in
computing, you know, a backup isn't a
backup unless it's tested. If the last
time you touched your seed phrase is 5
years ago,
just double check. Is it still where I
think it is? Is it importable into
another device? Maybe if you have a have
a backup hardware wallet or if it's a
hot wallet, you know, can I import it
into another hot wallet? Making sure
that things are still as accessible as
you think they are. I think something
that gets missed, especially amongst
experienced folks, is we're so focused
on the external threats, that we forget
that in crypto, in a self-custody
scenario, we are also a threat to our
own assets.
um if we make a mistake or if we forget,
there's no support line to help us.
So, continuing awareness of what your
own setup, what your own situation is
can save you from the equal heartbreak
of having your assets stolen. And you
know, I mean, it's arguably probably
feels worse, right? If you just forgot
and you can't access your keys, that
sucks. I would just say as well, this is
kind of the two points that I wanted to
hit on is the the ongoing education, the
ongoing practice of hygiene, right? You
don't just take a bath once, you take
you take one every day or every other
day. The other threat that comes with
being an experienced person is don't
make the mistake of thinking that you
are not vulnerable to these attacks.
It's such a simple thing to say, but I
can't stress enough how many people I
see in the crypto space that are
experienced and for lack of a better way
to put it are a little bit too cocky
thinking that it can't happen to them. I
know some very sophisticated people even
from C4 um that are information security
professionals at a very high level in
the industry that have gotten fished
right and have talked about their
experiences. Fishing is not just about
lack of experience or about lack of
knowledge. It's about preying on normal
human tendencies, the urgency, the
threats, the rewards. Right? I want to
think I'm less vulnerable to fishing
than probably the average person. And I
would say that I I likely am, but I am
not invulnerable. So, be awareing and
keep yourself on your toes at all times.
Um cuz that that complacency will get
you.
>> And I I think the the three heristics
that you spoke about earlier, like pay
attention to urgency, threats, or
rewards. If you kind of go through those
three steps whenever you're being asked
to do anything, if if you think about it
and say it out loud like a mantra, it
can really help with fishing attacks.
But they're getting really
sophisticated, these bad actors and
these malicious actors. So, are you
starting to in the years that we've seen
the space mature, we've probably also
seen social engineering attacks,
malicious actors uh mature as well. What
today in July, early July 2025, what's
kind of like the predominant like
security
threat actor out there? What's like the
number one scheme or or scam, if you
want to put it that way, that we're
seeing today? So, I don't know if I
could put it on like say a specific
known threat actor because I don't
necessarily keep a breast of that that
at that level, but in terms of what I
see on a day-to-day basis through my
content and users, you know, the two
biggest ones are definitely the
investment style scams. Um, especially,
you know, I mean, not in a political
way, but it seems like we we're kind of
in a precarious time economically. Um,
the job market's rough. People are
looking for ways to keep themselves
afloat or make some extra cash. The
luring in of a passive income crypto
investment that's high yield is is very
attractive to people from all
backgrounds. I've talked to people, you
know, that are IT professionals like
myself that have gotten taken by
giveaway scams. You know, these these
things happen. And then the other thing
is maybe more on the technical front. um
the types of fishing attacks that try to
get people to reveal their seed phrase
or maybe install malicious software on
their PC or their phone that can swipe
keys, swap out addresses. It's really
those two fronts that I'm seeing the
most out in the wild. All of which are
trying to get people to either get a
reward or deal with a threat or just
have some kind of urgent message that
that results in them giving up the keys.
So, I guess as we're kind of like
wrapping up and and zooming out, we're
keeping ourselves safe, but maybe uh we
can end on on a high note. I was
mentioning earlier that it feels like
grinding after a decade of grinding, but
we're still here. There's something here
that keeps us here. So, as we take a
like an all-encompassing look at what
this asset class, this technology stack,
this this vertical offers,
what are you looking forward to in the
next one, two, five years? What has you
really excited about just like what
blockchain offers in general? I think
it's a great question and actually tie
in for something that I wanted to say
earlier and kind of kind of maybe
blanked out a little bit when we talk
about maybe getting a little bit jaded
on the space with how some some negative
things are. The thing that keeps me
grounded and exciting is kind of like
total typical software engineer stuff
which is it's hard for me to get wrapped
up in all of the promises. I'm like it's
just code, you know? It's just software
that does something useful and
interesting and I think it should be
looked at that way, right? I think there
is a lot of hype and promises in crypto.
Some of which is warranted, some of
which maybe isn't. Um, but at the end of
the day, what excites me is that this is
a longunning battleested open protocol
for money. No matter what happens with
investment, with regulation, with how
the technology evolves, different smart
contracts, different coins, different
blockchains, the end of the day, there
is a technology for your use case.
Whether it's building a smart contract
for something important to you, whether
it's being able to send money to
somebody across the world to get paid
for consulting, to share something with
your family, to help a small business
deal with transaction fees. There's a
use case out there for everybody in this
space. And we don't have to get caught
up in all the sort of hype for
individual projects because there's a
pot for every lid. You know, something
that interests you might not interest
me. Something that makes me feel giddy
might not interest you. All that matters
is that we can install software and
interact over the internet and do some
really cool things with value. Just
because some programmers and marketers
and people got together and decided
we're going to make this happen. That
makes me excited because at the end of
the day, it's just like I don't know. I
feel like crypto the same way I feel
about Linux and Windows and Libre Office
and Audacity and all the software I use
dayto-day. Like it's a tool. Um it's a
really empowering and interesting tool,
but I don't have to get too caught up in
the hype or the negative. I'm just going
to use it for what it is.
>> Yeah, I love that. I mean, at at its
core principle, it doesn't matter what's
happening in the world, every 10
minutes, a new block is minted on the
Bitcoin blockchain. And as long as we
have internet and electricity, that will
continue to be the case. Josh, this was
an awesome kind of like overview for
security practices. I think it was
phenomenal to have you on because I,
like many others, have been in the space
for a while, but need reminders to check
my security hygiene. And so I'll
definitely be walking away with some
good pointers and tips to kind of
implement into my own practices. I think
um before we let you go, who do you want
to speak with and what's the best way
they can get in contact with you and
also maybe she'll uh where we can go to
to get some chain tootses content as
well.
>> Yeah. So, I'm genuinely here for
everybody. I love to learn. I love to
teach. You know, if you're a brand new
person, you don't know how to get
started, you're an expert, you you need
some help with your security hygiene, I
have a contact forum on my website,
chaintootses.com.
I'm on uh some socials like LinkedIn and
Instagram and Facebook. I'm generally a
pretty responsive because um I'm not
really that big, you know. I'm I'm at
the perfect size for a channel. I'd love
it to grow. So, you can find me on
YouTube uh Chain Tootes on GitHub,
chains.com,
and if I may throw out um digital
sovereignty, protecting your crypto
assets against common threats. It's
widely available Amazon, Barnes & Noble
online. And of course, you know, I'd
appreciate if you bought a paperback or
an ebook to help support, but to me,
open knowledge sharing is the most
important thing. You can read the
individual chapters for free on GitHub.
The whole book, you don't have to pay.
You can share it. Uh the audio book is
going to be the same deal when it comes
out. And same with all the all the
YouTube videos, articles, code demos.
You can find me online. I genuinely hope
you uh enjoy it. Send me a comment. Let
me know if you have questions.
>> I think there's an open space on my
bookshelf for a new book.
>> Sick. I would love that.
>> Awesome. Well, Josh, thank you so much
for taking the time to come on and talk
about something you love. Um, I hope
that somebody listening to this in the
future uh is able to benefit from a
little tidbit that they learned today.
The number one thing that I'm walking
away with is that we're not infallible
and we need to continue to keep our
teeth sharp if we want to stay uh and
make it long term in this crazy space
that we call crypto and blockchain. So,
thank you so much, Josh. I appreciate
you.
>> Thank you so much for having me. It's
always incredibly fun to have a
conversation like this. Um, so I really
appreciate you taking the time.
>> Absolutely. And shout out to the C4 team
for connecting us. Much obliged. Cheers,
everyone. Thank you for tuning in to the
Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the
loop with all of our latest episodes and
insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. We'd also love to
hear from you. So, please don't hesitate
to drop a comment on Spotify or YouTube
to share what topics you'd like us to
cover or who you'd like to see as our
next guest. And if you or someone you
know would make a great guest, please
don't hesitate to reach out. We're
always on the hunt for fresh voices and
new perspectives.
For our NEO token holders out there,
please consider voting for NEO news
today as your council representative.
We've proudly been serving the NEO
ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives. So with
all of that said, thank you once again
for listening to the Smart Economy
podcast and we can't wait to catch you
next time.
[Applause]